mind your decisions i'm preshtalwalker
abcd is a square with a side length
equal to one
pick point e alongside dc and pick point
f alongside bc such that e a f
is a 45 degree angle and a f b
is a 70 degree angle
[Music]
the first part of the question is to
solve for the measure of angle
aef the second part
of the question is to solve for the
perimeter of triangle ecf
that is solve for ec plus cf plus fe
a version of this problem was given to
ninth grade students in
india who had only learned geometry
therefore the challenge is to solve
without using trigonometry
pause if you'd like to give this problem
a try and when you're ready
keep watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
we will solve the problem by thinking
outside the box
i give credit to the solution to on and
gotham who emailed it to me
now let's get started first consider
triangle abf
since angle b is a 90 degree angle
angle fab must be equal to 20 degrees
then consider triangle ade since angle a
is a 90 degree angle angle dae
must be equal to 25 degrees then
since angle d is a 90 degree angle angle
aed
must be equal to 65 degrees now let's go
back to triangle abf
the trick to this problem will be to
think outside the box
we will rotate this triangle 90 degrees
clockwise
about vertex a we've created a congruent
triangle
and we'll label this vertex as f prime
because it is the image
of the vertex f from here we have
f prime a d is equal to 20 degrees by
construction
we then will solve that angle f prime a
e
will be equal to 20 degrees plus 25
degrees which is equal to a total of 45
degrees
now we are going to consider that a f
prime
is equal to af by construction we thus
have two triangles that are congruent by
side angle side
here we have one side that's equal to
itself then we have
two angles that are equal to 45 degrees
and then we have two sides that are
equal to each other
therefore these two triangles are
congruent
in fact there are mirror images of each
other
this means angle aef is exactly equal
to angle aef prime and so it is equal to
65 degrees
and we're done with the first part of
the question
now let's solve for the second part of
what is the perimeter of triangle ecf
let's consider a numerical approach
imagine that we have a ruler
and that we can measure the length of ec
suppose we estimate it to be 0.6389
let's do the same thing for the other
sides of cf
and fe we end up that the sum of these
three lengths will be equal to 2.
now what would happen if we change the
points e and
f a remarkable thing happens no matter
where we pick the points
of e and f the perimeter of this
triangle will always be equal to 2
exactly this is good enough for a
numerical approach
but why does it happen mathematically
let's prove this
so we go back to our original diagram
construct triangle af prime d
recall that triangle a f prime e is
congruent to triangle afe
let's label some lengths first suppose
that b
f has a length equal to x this means d
f prime also has a length equal to x
now fc must have a length equal to one
minus x
because the entire side bc has a length
equal to one
next suppose that d e has a length equal
to y
we must have that f prime e which has a
length of
x plus y will have the same length as ef
therefore ef has a length equal to x
plus y
finally ec will have a length equal to 1
minus y
because the entire side dc has a length
equal to one
now let's consider the perimeter of
triangle ecf
it'll be equal to one minus y plus one
minus x
plus x plus y we can cancel out the y's
and cancel out the x's and we're left
with one plus one
and that's exactly equal to two which is
what we saw in the numerical approach
amazing thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
youtube
as always thanks for watching and thanks
for your support
you